Let's start on the homepage, this
orange page here, our desktop version.
We're gonna start with desktop.
And we'll move into
mobile towards the end.
The first big thing that I see when I'm
looking at this is we've got an orange
background.
So let's do it.
Let's set an orange background.
So the first thing that I'm gonna do,
so style on our body element here,
we're gonna say background-color,
and you can copy that hex code.
Of course,
you can grab it from the design file, and
you're gonna put it in like that.
I'm also gonna set
the text color to white.
Why are you mad at me?
I have two hash symbols.
And we'll set color to #ffffff,
which is white.
And then that read me I also
linked to the plugin for this.
If you're wondering why it's showing up
as a physical color, that is because I
have installed, where did my plug-in go,
this one, color highlight.
So feel free to install that and then
you can actually see the physical color
associated with that
hex value right there.
Okay, so I've set a background color and
a color on our body.
Let's open this, so I'm gonna
right-click on our index.html file, and
I'm gonna say open with live server.
And it's going to open our webpage here.
This looks pretty beautiful already.
Remember, I said that CSS adds beauty and
a nicer user experience.
Well, this is the prime example of that.
We've got our orange background, and
we've got our white text for most of it.
Again, this concept is
known as inline styling,
remember we're setting the style
inline on this element.
But there's a second way to add CSS and
this is known as embedded CSS.
So to do this,
we can add a style tag in the head.
So I'll add a style tag.
If you see me typing something,
and it just like magically appears
that there is now an element.
This is something called Emmet.
So as I type, like if I type a P for
a paragraph, you can see this pop-up,
Emmet Abbreviation.
That's the tool.
I believe it already comes with
Visual Studio Code, but if not,
you can search for it in the marketplace.
Emett Abreviation, I'm gonna try to type
all the tags out so you can follow along.
But in case I forget,
that's what's going on there.
So style, got our style.
Embedded CSS, right.
So now, instead of declaring it in line,
I can say select the body element,
instead of background color.
To this, which auto completes for
me that orange.
And we wanna set the color to white and
I can remove this inline style now, right?
And when I go back we can see it
looks the same as it did previously.
So this is the second way that
we can add CSS to our HTML.
So it works, but again it's gonna quickly
become unmanageable if we're making
a production level application.
We write everything in
each individual HTML file.
So the solution to that
is external style sheets.
This is the most widely
recognized way to write CSS.
So the first thing we're gonna do in the
root of our project here is we're gonna
create a new folder.
Now, we're gonna call it Styles.
Inside that styles folder, I'm going
to create a new file called index.css.
And I'm gonna copy this style
rule here that I've just defined,
can remove those style tags now.
I'm gonna put it into this index.css file,
and
now you can see on save it formatted for
me it's beautiful.
But now we actually need
to link to this file,
otherwise the HTML file has no
idea that now we've got styles.
So to do that,
we use this element called link.
I am gonna use the Emmet Abbreviation for
this because I don't wanna
forget the attributes here.
The link element takes a rel attribute,
which is hey,
this is a style sheet and
a link to the style sheet.
So we're gonna say this is in our current
folder we wanna go into the styles folder.
And it point to the index's CSS file.
So now we have our external
CSS stylesheet, and
we've linked to it in the head.
And again,
everything is working as expected.
If we go back here, we can see we don't
want our links to be blue and purple.
We want them to be white,
so let's change that.
Let's go back to our CSS file here,
I'm gonna declare a link selector or
type selector for the links, right.
So the color, well, we've already declared
the color on the body element is white.
So I'm just gonna inherit,
this is how inherit works.
It's saying, hey, find my parents that
has a declaration for the color value.
Let's inherit.
When we save,
you can see now our links are white.
We also don't want them to be underlined.
This is a default styling of links.
So we can go ahead and remove that.
We'll say text decoration.
We can also set this to inherit.
And now,
our links are no longer underlined.
It goes also be text decoration none.
That's another value you can use here.
So text decoration none.
Either works.
Just it's nice to see how
inherit works sometimes.
Okay, so Times New Roman is not
the sexiest of fonts is it?
So if we go back to our style guide here,
we've got two font families.
So we have Inter Bold and Inter Regular.
So we gonna use Google Fonts for these.
So if you wanna head
over to fonts.google.com.
So these are all free
fonts that you can use.
I use them quite often,
especially for personal projects.
And like I had mentioned,
we're using Inter as our font family and
then the weights are gonna be bold and
regular.
So we can go ahead and search for
those on Google Fonts.
It's gonna be this first one here.
So I'm gonna open it.
So we wanted regular and we wanted bold.
You can see here I've
got both of them added.
As you scroll down, you can see
the different weights that you can select.
So like I could download every
single font weight for this, but
it's gonna bloat my file.
I don't need them all,
we just need regular and bold.
So you can select them here, and
they'll show up on the right panel.
So, there are two ways that
we can get custom fonts in.
Let's start with the first one
which is to download them.
So I'm gonna click this Download All
button and I'm gonna unzip it.
And when we go in, you can see we've got
this static file with our font TTF files.
So I want to take a bold and
regular font weights and
move them into a new folder called fonts.
So first let's go and create that
folder so we can save our font files,
New Folder, Fonts.
And now I wanna drag
them into this project.
So I'm gonna get out of
full screen mode here.
So we've got Inter Bold and Inter Regular,
and I'm just gonna drag them in like this.
Cool, so, they're both here now.
Obviously, I don't render anything
in Visual Studio Code, but
now we've got our two files here.
Let's go back into full screen mode.
So, in order to use these 2TTF files,
we need to create two font-based
rules in our index file.
So above this body selector,
we're gonna use the font base, here.
So font base and inside the curly brackets
we wanted to find that font family.
In our case, it's Inter.
Now because again,
this is not space separated name,
we don't need the quotations around it.
You are welcome to add them as well.
So our font family is Inter,
and the source,
the source file, is gonna be a URL,
so it's in our fonts folder.
We need to go up a level, remember,
cuz we're in our styles folder, so
we go up one level to the root and
we need to go into our fonts folder.
And the file we want for the regular
weight is the Inter-Regular.ttf.
I am gonna do the same thing for
bold, so feel free to do that.
I'm just gonna change these to the bold
values, inter-bold and inter-bold,
like that.
So those are our two
font based declarations.
Let's update our font family here and
see if it actually worked.
So if we change the font family in our
body element font-famil,y Interbold,
let's see see if intervals works for us.
We can see it's loaded.
So that's how you're going to
use downloaded font files.
If you're working on an enterprise
app with proprietary fonts,
this is probably the way to
go unless they're on a CDN.
But we can also use the Google CDN,
so we don't have to download and
have these files in our project, right?
They provide links here.
So let's copy these two link elements or
I guess why is it say three?
Yeah, okay, there are three,
copy these link elements, Put them in our,
Project above our stylesheet here.
So, when we go back here we can see
it shows you how to actually declare
this as a font family now,
font family inter comma sensor.
Remember this is the fallback,
global font or generic one.
So to see if that's working, we can get
rid of these font face declarations now.
And change this to Inter.
We'll do san-serif.
It did in Google.
And it's working.
So notice that we don't have to have two
font families defined like we did with
the font base rule.
We can just change the font weight
value to bold and it will work.
So, instead of saying like inter-bold
we can say it font weight,
it's not bold and now it's bold.
So that is one difference.
So, you can actually go ahead and
remove these files, we don't need them but
I'm gonna leave them there just so
you can see how to play with them.
If we go over to our speakers page,
it doesn't look like the home page at all.
We're missing the orange background,
we're missing the font,
the links are still blue and
purple and underlined.
So this is because we have to import
the stylesheet on that HTML page as
well, right?
So we could use the same index.css
file on the speakers page, but
if we go back to our design files,
you can see the styles are pretty
different across these two pages.
Speakers is white background
with orange text, and
home is orange background with white text.
So I'm gonna separate these
into two different styles.
Style, what's the word I'm looking for?
Files?
Yeah, files.
So I'll make a new file
called speakers.css here.
I'm just gonna import that
into the speaker's HTML page,
so I don't forget and
wonder why styles are not being applied.
So remember,
it's the link tag rel style sheet.
And the href is going to be styles,
speaker css, like that.